Abstract

Multiwinner voting captures a wide variety of settings, from
parliamentary elections in democratic systems to product
placement in online shopping platforms. There is a large body
of work dealing with axiomatic characterizations, computa-
tional complexity, and algorithmic analysis of multiwinner
voting rules. Although many challenges remain, signiﬁcant
progress has been made in showing existence of fair and rep-
resentative outcomes as well as efﬁcient algorithmic solu-
tions for many commonly studied settings. However, much
of this work focuses on single-shot elections, even though in
numerous real-world settings elections are held periodically
and repeatedly. Hence, it is imperative to extend the study of
multiwinner voting to temporal settings. Recently, there have
been several efforts to address this challenge. However, these
works are difﬁcult to compare, as they model multi-period
voting in very different ways. We propose a uniﬁed frame-
work for studying temporal fairness in this domain, drawing
connections with various existing bodies of work, and con-
solidating them within a general framework. We also identify
gaps in existing literature, outline multiple opportunities for
future work, and put forward a vision for the future of multi-
winner voting in temporal settings.

