Abstract

Humans seek information regarding a specific
topic through performing a conversation con-
taining a series of questions and answers. In
the pursuit of conversational question answer-
ing research, we introduce the PCoQA, the first
Persian Conversational Question Answering
dataset, a resource comprising information-
seeking dialogs encompassing a total of 9,026
contextually-driven questions. Each dialog in-
volves a questioner, a responder, and a docu-
ment from the Wikipedia; The questioner asks
several inter-connected questions from the text
and the responder provides a span of the docu-
ment as the answer for each question. PCoQA
is designed to present novel challenges com-
pared to previous question answering datasets
including having more open-ended non-factual
answers, longer answers, and fewer lexical
overlaps. This paper not only presents the
comprehensive PCoQA dataset but also reports
the performance of various benchmark models.
Our models include baseline models and pre-
trained models, which are leveraged to boost
the performance of the model. The dataset and
benchmarks are available at our Github page.1

1

